Actualize cryptocurrency example [ECR-4023] (#391)
exonum/exonum-doc: src/get-started/create-service.md

Schema is a structured view of [the key-value storage](../architecture/merkledb.md)
used in Exonum.
To access the storage, however, we will not use the storage directly, but
rather a generic `Access` abstraction. `Access` is a trait that wraps underlying
database access types like `Snapshot`s and `Fork`s.

!!! tip
    `Snapshot` represents an immutable view of the storage,
    and `Fork` is a mutable one, where the changes can be easily
    rolled back. For more details see [MerkleDB docs](../architecture/merkledb.md)

As the schema should work with both types of storage views, we declare it as
a generic wrapper over `Access`:

```rust
#[derive(Debug, FromAccess)]
pub struct CurrencySchema<T: Access> {
    /// Correspondence of public keys of users to the account information.
    pub wallets: MapIndex<T::Base, PublicKey, Wallet>,
}
```

The structure layout corresponds to the database layout in the storage, so we
don't need to create any glue code to connect this structure to the database.
This code is generated automatically by deriving `FromAccess`.

> As we want to keep the wallets in the storage, for it we will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we want to keep the wallets in the storage, we will
```

use an instance of [`MapIndex`](../architecture/merkledb.md#mapindex),
a map abstraction.
Keys of the index will correspond to public keys of the wallets.

> Index values will be serialized `Wallet` structures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Index values will be stored as serialized `Wallet` structures.
```

same transactions in Rust:

```rust
#[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Clone, Debug, ProtobufConvert, BinaryValue)]
#[protobuf_convert(source = "proto::TxCreateWallet")]
pub struct TxCreateWallet {
    pub name: String,
}

#[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Clone, Debug, ProtobufConvert, BinaryValue)]
#[protobuf_convert(source = "proto::TxTransfer")]
pub struct TxTransfer {
    pub to: PublicKey,
    pub amount: u64,
    pub seed: u64,
}
```

> To make service support transactions defined above, we need to declare service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the service supports the transactions defined above, we need to declare a service
```

Author: ```suggestion
To make the service support the transactions defined above, we need to declare
a service *interface*. A service interface is basically a trait with methods
that correspond to the transactions processing logic. In our case the interface
will look as follows:
```

Author: ```suggestion
To make the service support the transactions defined above, we need to declare a service
```

> *interface*. Service interface is basically a trait with methods that correspond

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*interface*. A service interface is basically a trait with methods that correspond
```

> to the transactions processing logic. In our case interface will look as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the transactions processing logic. In our case the interface will look as follows:
```

```rust
/// Cryptocurrency service transactions.
#[exonum_interface]
pub trait CryptocurrencyInterface<Ctx> {
    /// Output of the methods in this interface.
    type Output;

    /// Creates wallet with the given `name`.
    #[interface_method(id = 0)]
    fn create_wallet(&self, ctx: Ctx, arg: TxCreateWallet) -> Self::Output;
    /// Transfers `amount` of the currency from one wallet to another.
    #[interface_method(id = 1)]
    fn transfer(&self, ctx: Ctx, arg: TxTransfer) -> Self::Output;
}
```

`exonum_interface` macro generates a glue to dispatch transactions and

> deserialize their payload within service. `interface_method` macro assigns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deserialize its payload within service. `interface_method` macro assigns
```

Author: I think "their" is more suitable here. Native speakers commonly use "their" to the inanimate objects.

> the numeric IDs to the transactions. This is required, since call information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the numeric IDs to the transactions. This is required, since a call information
```

in transactions contains the transaction ID rather than the method name.

With that, target users will know which transaction ID they should set to
invoke a certain method.

!!! note

>     All the transactions numeric IDs should be unique. Attempt to create two methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    All the transactions numeric IDs should be unique. An attempt to create two methods
```

a service *interface*. A service interface is basically a trait with methods
that correspond to the transactions processing logic. In our case the interface
will look as follows:

```rust
/// Cryptocurrency service transactions.
#[exonum_interface]
pub trait CryptocurrencyInterface<Ctx> {
    /// Output of the methods in this interface.
    type Output;

    /// Creates wallet with the given `name`.
    #[interface_method(id = 0)]
    fn create_wallet(&self, ctx: Ctx, arg: TxCreateWallet) -> Self::Output;
    /// Transfers `amount` of the currency from one wallet to another.
    #[interface_method(id = 1)]
    fn transfer(&self, ctx: Ctx, arg: TxTransfer) -> Self::Output;
}
```

`exonum_interface` macro generates a glue to dispatch transactions and
deserialize their payload within service. `interface_method` macro assigns
the numeric IDs to the transactions. This is required, since a call information
in transactions contains the transaction ID rather than the method name.

With that, target users will know which transaction ID they should set to
invoke a certain method.

!!! note
    All the transactions numeric IDs should be unique. An attempt to create two methods

>     with the same numeric ID will result in a failure.

Reviewer 2: Nit: "...will result in a compile error" would be more precise.

Let’s define the codes of the above errors:

```rust
/// Error codes emitted by `TxCreateWallet` and/or `TxTransfer`
/// transactions during execution.
#[derive(Debug, ExecutionFail)]
pub enum Error {
    /// Wallet already exists.
    ///
    /// Can be emitted by `TxCreateWallet`.
    WalletAlreadyExists = 0,
    /// Sender doesn't exist.
    ///
    /// Can be emitted by `TxTransfer`.
    SenderNotFound = 1,
    /// Receiver doesn't exist.
    ///
    /// Can be emitted by `TxTransfer`.
    ReceiverNotFound = 2,
    /// Insufficient currency amount.
    ///
    /// Can be emitted by `TxTransfer`.
    InsufficientCurrencyAmount = 3,
    /// Sender same as receiver.
    ///
    /// Can be emitted by `TxTransfer`.
    SenderSameAsReceiver = 4,
}
```

Deriving the `ExecutionFail` trait here will make our errors generic and
compatible with other error kinds used within Exonum blockchain, this macro
is similar to the `failure::Fail`.

### Transaction Execution

> Above we defined the interface of our service, but currently this interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Above we've defined the interface of our service, but currently this interface
```

has no implementation. Thus, there is no actual business logic attached to
them. To fix this situation, we should declare our service, and then implement
the `CryptocurrencyInterface` trait for it.

> Service declaration is similar to the usual structure declaration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service declaration is similar to the usual structure declaration:
```

```rust
/// Cryptocurrency service implementation.
#[derive(Debug, ServiceFactory, ServiceDispatcher)]
#[service_dispatcher(implements("CryptocurrencyInterface"))]
#[service_factory(proto_sources = "crate::proto")]
pub struct CryptocurrencyService;

impl Service for CryptocurrencyService {}
```

`service_dispatcher` macro collects information about interfaces implemented
by service, and `service_factory` macro generates a code to create instances
of our service, similarly to the [Factory method design pattern][factory-method].

[factory-method]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factory_method_pattern

> The implementation of `Service` trait can contain the additional elements of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementation of the `Service` trait can contain the additional elements of
```

Let’s define the codes of the above errors:

```rust
/// Error codes emitted by `TxCreateWallet` and/or `TxTransfer`
/// transactions during execution.
#[derive(Debug, ExecutionFail)]
pub enum Error {
    /// Wallet already exists.
    ///

>     /// Can be emitted by `TxCreateWallet`.

Reviewer 2: Nit: IMO, "Can be emitted..." description can be removed in order to shorten the code sample.

    WalletAlreadyExists = 0,
    /// Sender doesn't exist.
    ///
    /// Can be emitted by `TxTransfer`.
    SenderNotFound = 1,
    /// Receiver doesn't exist.
    ///
    /// Can be emitted by `TxTransfer`.
    ReceiverNotFound = 2,
    /// Insufficient currency amount.
    ///
    /// Can be emitted by `TxTransfer`.
    InsufficientCurrencyAmount = 3,
    /// Sender same as receiver.
    ///
    /// Can be emitted by `TxTransfer`.
    SenderSameAsReceiver = 4,
}
```

Deriving the `ExecutionFail` trait here will make our errors generic and
compatible with other error kinds used within Exonum blockchain, this macro
is similar to the `failure::Fail`.

### Transaction Execution

Above we've defined the interface of our service, but currently this interface
has no implementation. Thus, there is no actual business logic attached to
them. To fix this situation, we should declare our service, and then implement
the `CryptocurrencyInterface` trait for it.

> The service declaration is similar to the usual structure declaration:

Reviewer 2: I'd rewrite as "Service is a `struct` with some trait implementations" since service declaration *is* a structure declaration.

pub struct CryptocurrencyService;

impl Service for CryptocurrencyService {}
```

`service_dispatcher` macro collects information about interfaces implemented
by service, and `service_factory` macro generates a code to create instances
of our service, similarly to the [Factory method design pattern][factory-method].

[factory-method]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factory_method_pattern

The implementation of the `Service` trait can contain the additional elements of
the service lifecycle, like wiring the API. Currently we can skip them and
leave the implementation empty.

Now, when we have the structure, we can implement the actual business logic.

We will do it in two steps, one step for each transaction we have.

For creating a wallet, we check that the wallet does not exist and add a new
wallet if so:

```rust
impl CryptocurrencyInterface<ExecutionContext<'_>> for CryptocurrencyService {
    type Output = Result<(), ExecutionError>;

    fn create_wallet(
        &self,
        context: ExecutionContext<'_>,
        arg: TxCreateWallet
    ) -> Self::Output {
        let author = context
            .caller()
            .author()

>             .expect("Wrong 'TxCreateWallet' initiator");

Reviewer 2: I wonder if's worth explaining that extracting `author` like this is not the best idea in production (`expect` should not be used; `CallerAddress` should be used for better forward compatibility).

has no implementation. Thus, there is no actual business logic attached to
them. To fix this situation, we should declare our service, and then implement
the `CryptocurrencyInterface` trait for it.

Service is a `struct` which implements several certain traits:

```rust
/// Cryptocurrency service implementation.
#[derive(Debug, ServiceFactory, ServiceDispatcher)]
#[service_dispatcher(implements("CryptocurrencyInterface"))]
#[service_factory(proto_sources = "crate::proto")]
pub struct CryptocurrencyService;

impl Service for CryptocurrencyService {}
```

`service_dispatcher` macro collects information about interfaces implemented
by service, and `service_factory` macro generates a code to create instances
of our service, similarly to the [Factory method design pattern][factory-method].

[factory-method]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factory_method_pattern

The implementation of the `Service` trait can contain the additional elements of
the service lifecycle, like wiring the API. Currently we can skip them and
leave the implementation empty.

Now, when we have the structure, we can implement the actual business logic.

> 

Reviewer 2: Nit: IMO, this newline is redundant; the following sentence looks fine as a part of the previous paragraph.

We will do it in two steps, one step for each transaction we have.

For creating a wallet, we check that the wallet does not exist and add a new
wallet if so:

```rust
impl CryptocurrencyInterface<ExecutionContext<'_>> for CryptocurrencyService {
    type Output = Result<(), ExecutionError>;

    fn create_wallet(
        &self,
        context: ExecutionContext<'_>,
        arg: TxCreateWallet
    ) -> Self::Output {
        let author = context
            .caller()
            .author()
            .expect("Wrong 'TxCreateWallet' initiator");

        let mut schema = CurrencySchema::new(context.service_data());
        if schema.wallets.get(&author).is_none() {
            let wallet = Wallet::new(&author, &arg.name, INIT_BALANCE);
            println!("Create the wallet: {:?}", wallet);
            schema.wallets.put(&author, wallet);
            Ok(())
        } else {
            Err(Error::WalletAlreadyExists.into())
        }
    }

    // Implementation for the `transfer` transaction will be in the next step.
}
```

> !!! note

Reviewer 2: Nit: I'd strengthen this to `!!! warning`.

following signature:

```rust

> fn my_method(state: &ServiceApiState<'_>, query: MyQuery) -> api::Result<MyResponse>

Reviewer 2: Neither of two methods described below satisfies this signature 🙃. I'd propose to remove this sentence and explain what `state` is after the corresponding code sample.

following signature:

```rust
fn my_method(state: &ServiceApiState<'_>, query: MyQuery) -> api::Result<MyResponse>
```

> The `state` contains a channel, i.e. a connection to the blockchain node

Reviewer 2: I think describing the channel is no longer relevant because it's not used by the service.

> [uniform structure](../architecture/transactions.md#messages) developed by

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest to remove "API for Transactions" section because it's not informative to the reader. Instead, it's possible to promote "API for Read Requests" to "Implement API" level.

[uniform structure](../architecture/transactions.md#messages) developed by
`exonum`.

> The transaction ID is a transaction number in the interface trait

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transaction ID is a method number in the interface trait
```
?

Author: ```suggestion
The transaction ID is a method numeric identifier in the interface trait
```

> and can be set by `interface_method` macro. As we mentioned earlier,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and can be set by `interface_method` macro. As we've mentioned earlier,
```

> user has to set method IDs manually to every method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user has to set method IDs manually to the every method.
```

impl CryptocurrencyApi {
    /// Endpoint for getting a single wallet.
    pub fn get_wallet(
        self,
        state: &ServiceApiState<'_>,
        pub_key: PublicKey,
    ) -> api::Result<Wallet> {
        let schema = CurrencySchema::new(state.service_data());
        schema
            .wallets
            .get(&pub_key)
            .ok_or_else(|| api::Error::not_found().title("Wallet not found"))
    }

    /// Endpoint for dumping all wallets from the storage.
    pub fn get_wallets(
        self,
        state: &ServiceApiState<'_>
    ) -> api::Result<Vec<Wallet>> {
        let schema = CurrencySchema::new(state.service_data());
        Ok(schema.wallets.values().collect())
    }
}
```

As with the transaction endpoint, the methods have an idiomatic signature
`fn(&ServiceApiState, MyQuery) -> api::Result<MyResponse>`.

Also we will declare a helper method to wire API, which later can be invoked

> by service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by the service:
```

impl CryptocurrencyApi {
    /// Endpoint for getting a single wallet.
    pub fn get_wallet(
        self,
        state: &ServiceApiState<'_>,
        pub_key: PublicKey,
    ) -> api::Result<Wallet> {
        let schema = CurrencySchema::new(state.service_data());
        schema
            .wallets
            .get(&pub_key)
            .ok_or_else(|| api::Error::not_found().title("Wallet not found"))
    }

    /// Endpoint for dumping all wallets from the storage.
    pub fn get_wallets(
        self,
        state: &ServiceApiState<'_>
    ) -> api::Result<Vec<Wallet>> {
        let schema = CurrencySchema::new(state.service_data());
        Ok(schema.wallets.values().collect())
    }
}
```

As with the transaction endpoint, the methods have an idiomatic signature
`fn(&ServiceApiState, MyQuery) -> api::Result<MyResponse>`.

Also we will declare a helper method to wire API, which later can be invoked
by the service:

```rust
impl CryptocurrencyApi {
    /// 'ServiceApiBuilder' facilitates conversion between read requests and REST
    /// endpoints.

>     pub fn wire(self, builder: &mut ServiceApiBuilder) {

Reviewer 2: Nit / off-topic: Does consuming `self` have any purpose? Future compatibility?

Author: I copy-pasted it from the actual `cryptocurrency` example. IMHO it's better to keep them as similar as possible. Later we can improve both the service and the docs at the same time.

Reviewer 2: That's why I've used "off-topic" marking 🙃 If we're going to change this, naturally the changes would involve the example code as well.

we will position the blockchain code as an [*example*][cargo-example] and
place it into [`examples/demo.rs`][demo.rs].

### Additional Dependencies

Since services themselves do not require the Exonum node, in this example we
want to create one, and interact with it as well. Thus, we have to add several

> additional dependencies in our `Cargo.toml`:

Reviewer 2: Nit: I'd specify that these are dev dependencies.

we will position the blockchain code as an [*example*][cargo-example] and
place it into [`examples/demo.rs`][demo.rs].

### Additional Dependencies

> Since services themselves aren't require the Exonum node, in this example we

Reviewer 2: Grammar: ~aren't~ do not

want to create one, and interact with it as well. Thus, we have to add several
additional dependencies in our `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
# Dependencies required for example.

> exonum-explorer-service = "1.0"

Reviewer 2: Off-topic: If `exonum-cli` supported service instantiation, this section could be significantly simplified.

Author: I agree, but https://github.com/exonum/exonum-doc/pull/391#discussion_r372386195

// Returns the value of the `NodeConfig` object from the `node_config` function
NodeConfig {
    listen_address: peer_address.parse().unwrap(),
    consensus,
    external_address: peer_address.to_owned(),
    network: Default::default(),
    connect_list: Default::default(),
    api: api_cfg,
    mempool: Default::default(),
    thread_pool_size: Default::default(),
    keys: Keys::from_keys(
        consensus_public_key,
        consensus_secret_key,
        service_public_key,
        service_secret_key,
    ),
}
```

## Create Genesis Configuration

> `NodeConfig` we created earlier defines the configuration for the **node**,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NodeConfig` that we created earlier defines the configuration for the **node**,
```

but we also need a configuration for the **blockchain**. To initialize

> blockchain, we need `GenesisConfig` structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the blockchain, we need `GenesisConfig` structure.
```

Let's create a function which will generate `GenesisConfig` based on

> created `NodeConfig`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the created `NodeConfig`:
```

```rust
fn genesis_config(node_config: &NodeConfig) -> GenesisConfig {
    let artifact_id = CryptocurrencyService.artifact_id();
    GenesisConfigBuilder::with_consensus_config(node_config.consensus.clone())
        .with_artifact(ExplorerFactory.artifact_id())
        .with_instance(ExplorerFactory.default_instance())
        .with_artifact(artifact_id.clone())
        .with_instance(artifact_id.into_default_instance(101, "cryptocurrency"))
        .build()
}
```

In the code above we create `GenesisConfig` from the consensus configuration,
and add the `Explorer` and our `Cryptocurrency` services.

`Explorer` service is capable of sending transactions to the blockchain, so

> without this service we won't be able to interact with `Cryptocurrency` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
without this service we won't be able to interact with the `Cryptocurrency` service.
```

    api: api_cfg,
    mempool: Default::default(),
    thread_pool_size: Default::default(),
    keys: Keys::from_keys(
        consensus_public_key,
        consensus_secret_key,
        service_public_key,
        service_secret_key,
    ),
}
```

## Create Genesis Configuration

`NodeConfig` that we created earlier defines the configuration for the **node**,
but we also need a configuration for the **blockchain**. To initialize
the blockchain, we need `GenesisConfig` structure.

Let's create a function which will generate `GenesisConfig` based on
the created `NodeConfig`:

```rust
fn genesis_config(node_config: &NodeConfig) -> GenesisConfig {
    let artifact_id = CryptocurrencyService.artifact_id();
    GenesisConfigBuilder::with_consensus_config(node_config.consensus.clone())
        .with_artifact(ExplorerFactory.artifact_id())
        .with_instance(ExplorerFactory.default_instance())
        .with_artifact(artifact_id.clone())
        .with_instance(artifact_id.into_default_instance(101, "cryptocurrency"))
        .build()
}
```

In the code above we create `GenesisConfig` from the consensus configuration,
and add the `Explorer` and our `Cryptocurrency` services.

> `Explorer` service is capable of sending transactions to the blockchain, so

Reviewer 2: Nit: It could make sense to link to the explorer service description in *Other Services* article.

```rust
fn main() {
    exonum::helpers::init_logger().unwrap();
    let node_config = node_config();
    let genesis_config = genesis_config(&node_config);

    let node = NodeBuilder::new(TemporaryDB::new(), node_config, genesis_config)
        .with_plugin(SystemApiPlugin)
        .with_runtime_fn(|channel| {
            RustRuntime::builder()
                .with_factory(CryptocurrencyService)
                .with_factory(ExplorerFactory)
                .build(channel.endpoints_sender())
        })
        .build();

    node.run().unwrap();
}
```

That is, we:

1. Initialize logging in the Exonum core library.

> 2. Create a node with in-memory database (`MemoryDB`), Rust runtime (which is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a node with the in-memory database (`TemporaryDB`), Rust runtime (which is
```

> 2. Create a node with in-memory database (`MemoryDB`), Rust runtime (which is

Author: ```suggestion
2. Create a node with the non-persistent database (`TemporaryDB`), Rust runtime (which is
```

> 

Reviewer 2: In the skipped fragment above:

> This transaction transfers 15 coins from the first wallet to the second.

15 coins should be replaced with 5. Also, I'd suggest to use "token" instead of "coin" everywhere in the article.
